Add ruby docs (#941)
zeit/docs: pages/docs/v2/deployments/official-builders/ruby-now-ruby.mdx

import { withAmp } from 'next/amp'
import Doc from '~/components/layout/docs'
import { TerminalInput } from '~/components/text/terminal'
import { Code, InlineCode } from '~/components/text/code'
import { GenericLink } from '~/components/text/link'
import { Image } from '~/components/media'
import Caption from '~/components/text/caption'
import Note from '~/components/text/note'
import Example from '~/components/example'
import Tag from '~/components/text/tag'

export const meta = {
  title: 'Ruby Builder (@now/ruby)',
  description:
    'The official Ruby Builder for ZEIT Now. Serverless invokable functions from Ruby source code for ZEIT Now deployments.',
  editUrl: 'pages/docs/v2/deployments/official-builders/ruby-now-ruby.mdx',
  lastEdited: '2019-05-03T01:09:00.000Z'
}

<Tag>Status: Alpha</Tag>

> This builder takes in a Ruby program that defines a singular HTTP handler and outputs it as a [Lambda](/docs/v2/deployments/concepts/lambdas).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This builder takes in a Ruby program that defines a singular HTTP handler and outputs it as a serverless function.
```

## When to Use It

Whenever you want to expose an API or a function written in Ruby.

## How to Use It

Define a `index.rb` file inside a folder as follows:

```ruby
require 'cowsay'

Handler = Proc.new do |req, res|
    res.status = 200
    res['Content-Type'] = 'text/plain'

>     res.body = Cowsay.say('gem:RANDOMNESS_PLACEHOLDER', 'cow')

Reviewer 2: Let's change `gem:RANDOMNESS_PLACEHOLDER` to `hello world`

end
```

Inside `Gemfile` define:

```ruby
source "https://rubygems.org"

gem "cowsay", "~> 0.3.0"
```

> And define a `now.json` like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And define a `now.json` like so:
```

```json
{
  "version": 2,
  "builds": [{ "src": "*.rb", "use": "@now/ruby" }]
}
```

## Rack Interface

Many Ruby frameworks interface with [Rack](https://rack.github.io/) for forwarding HTTP requests to web applications written in Ruby. You can use Rack with frameworks such as Sinatra or Rails.

Instead of defining a handler, write the application as usual, like this Sinatra application:

```ruby
require 'sinatra'

get '/*' do
    'Hello world'
end
```

Inside `Gemfile` define:

```ruby
source "https://rubygems.org"

gem "sinatra", "~> 2.0"
gem "rack", "~> 2.0"
```

Add a Rack config file at `index.ru` to start the application:

```ruby
require './app'

run Sinatra::Application
```

> And define a `now.json` like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And define a `now.json` like so:
```

```json
{
  "version": 2,
  "builds": [{ "src": "index.ru", "use": "@now/ruby" }]
}
```

## Using Rack with Rails

Rails creates a Rack config file `config.ru` in the root directory of the Rails project. Use this file in `now.json` and map the routes to that destination:

```json
{
  "version": 2,
  "builds": [{ "src": "config.ru", "use": "@now/ruby" }],
  "routes": [{ "src": "(.*)", "dest": "config.ru" }]
}
```

> Most frameworks use their own implementation of routing. However, you can use a catch-all route to circumvent the framework and instead use [Now Routing Layer](/docs/v2/deployments/routes) to match a route to a Lambda.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most frameworks use their own implementation of routing. However, you can use a catch-all route to circumvent the framework and instead use the [Now Routing Layer](/docs/v2/deployments/routes) to match a route to a serverless function.
```
